examples/caffe2/detectron/README.md, before:

# Detectron and DeepDetect


### Table of Contents

**[Requirements](#requirements)**

**[Get a model](#get-a-model)**

**[Create a service](#create-a-service)**

**[Predict](#predict)**

### Requirements

DeepDetect must be compiled with the ```-DUSE_CAFFE2=ON``` flag

### Get a model

- #### In caffe2 format

You can find some of them [here](https://github.com/caffe2/models/tree/master/detectron)

Both ```init_net.pb``` and ```predict_net.pb``` files must be present in your model repository (the other files aren't necessary)

- #### In Detectron format

Download the weights (model_final.pkl) from the [model zoo](https://github.com/facebookresearch/Detectron/blob/master/MODEL_ZOO.md)

And find the corresponding training [configuration file](https://github.com/facebookresearch/Detectron/tree/master/configs) (*.yaml)

Then convert them using the [tool](https://github.com/facebookresearch/Detectron/blob/master/tools/convert_pkl_to_pb.py) provided in the Detectron repository

And finally, place the .pb files into the model repository:
- ```model_init.pb``` corresponds to ```init_net.pb```
- ```model.pb``` corresponds to ```predict_net.pb```

**WARNING: Those files cannot be used to infer masks, only bounding boxes**

###### Example

Here is a script to download and convert a **Fast R-CNN**:

```
#!/bin/sh

#Model R-50-C4 (with 2x the default learning-rate schedule)
WEIGHTS=https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/detectron/35857281/12_2017_baselines/e2e_faster_rcnn_R-50-C4_2x.yaml.01_34_56.ScPH0Z4r/output/train/coco_2014_train%3Acoco_2014_valminusminival/generalized_rcnn/model_final.pkl

#Config e2e_faster_rcnn_R-50-C4_2x.yaml
CONFIG=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/facebookresearch/Detectron/master/configs/12_2017_baselines/e2e_faster_rcnn_R-50-C4_2x.yaml

#Paths
DETECTRON=/home/foo/Detectron
WORKSPACE=/home/foo/tmp
REPOSITORY=/home/foo/rcnn_model

mkdir $WORKSPACE
cd $WORKSPACE
wget $WEIGHTS -O weights.pkl
wget $CONFIG -O config.yaml
python $DETECTRON/tools/convert_pkl_to_pb.py --out_dir . --cfg config.yaml DOWNLOAD_CACHE . TRAIN.WEIGHTS weights.pkl TEST.WEIGHTS weights.pkl

mkdir $REPOSITORY
cp model_init.pb $REPOSITORY/init_net.pb
cp model.pb $REPOSITORY/predict_net.pb
rm weights.pkl config.yaml model_def.png model.pbtxt model.pb model_init.pb
rmdir $WORKSPACE
```

- #### With mask support

To be able to generate masks, convert the model using [our](convert_pkl_to_pb.py) tool instead (using the same '.pkl' and '.yaml' as before).

This script uses the versions of Pytorch and Detectron embed within DeepDetect, so you need to add ```build/python_path/pytorch``` and ```build/python_path/detectron``` to your ```PYTHONPATH``` environment variable for it to work.

When executed, a subdirectory will be created inside your model repository to complete the missing part of the model.

(See the following example and "[create a service](#create-a-service)" for more details)

###### Example

```
#!/bin/sh

#Model R-50-C4 (with 2x the default learning-rate schedule)
WEIGHTS=https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/detectron/35859007/12_2017_baselines/e2e_mask_rcnn_R-50-FPN_2x.yaml.01_49_07.By8nQcCH/output/train/coco_2014_train%3Acoco_2014_valminusminival/generalized_rcnn/model_final.pkl

#Config e2e_faster_rcnn_R-50-C4_2x.yaml
CONFIG=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/facebookresearch/Detectron/master/configs/12_2017_baselines/e2e_mask_rcnn_R-50-FPN_2x.yaml

#Paths
DEEPDETECT=/home/foo/deepdetect # (We assume that there is a 'build' subdirectory)
WORKSPACE=/home/foo/tmp
REPOSITORY=/home/foo/rcnn_model

mkdir $WORKSPACE
cd $WORKSPACE
wget $WEIGHTS -O weights.pkl
wget $CONFIG -O config.yaml
PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$DEEPDETECT/build/python_path/pytorch:$DEEPDETECT/build/python_path/detectron \
	python $DEEPDETECT/examples/caffe2/detectron/convert_pkl_to_pb.py \
    --cfg config.yaml --wts weights.pkl \
    --out_dir $REPOSITORY --mask_dir $REPOSITORY/mask

rm weights.pkl config.yaml
rmdir $WORKSPACE
```

- #### With its class labels

If you do not have access to the training dataset or the classes that were used during the training, it may imply that the default 80-classes COCO dataset was used. Its classes are listed [here](https://github.com/facebookresearch/Detectron/blob/master/detectron/datasets/dummy_datasets.py)

You can also generate a 'corresp.txt' file when converting the model (using the ```--coco``` flag of [this](convert_pkl_to_pb.py) script).

### Create a service

- #### With the default configuration

To use a detectron model, the following flags must be set:
- ```'mllib': 'caffe2'```
- ```'connector': 'image'```

```
curl -X PUT "http://localhost:8080/services/my_service" -d '{
  "description": "detectron",
  "type": "supervised",
  "mllib": "caffe2",
  "model": { "repository": "my_model" },
  "parameters": {
    "input": {
      "connector": "image",
      "height": 1000,
      "width": 1000,
      "mean": [128, 128, 128]
    },
    "mllib": { "gpu": true }
  }
}'
```

- #### With the same configuration as the python version

In this case, you want the images to be scaled but not stretched.
You can do that with the flags ```scale_min``` and ```scale_max```.
(Images are scaled until their width and height are at least 'scale_min' and and most 'scale_max'. If it's not possible, 'scale_min' is ignored).

You can find them in the .yaml file:
- Either TEST.SCALE or the first value of TRAIN.SCALES can be used as a 'scale_min'
- Either TEST.MAX_SIZE or TRAIN.MAX_SIZE can be used as a 'scale_max'

You can also use the default scales of Detectron (600 and 1000) by setting ```'scale': true```.

Finally, you can find the 'mean values' of the model inside the .yaml file, under the name PIXEL_MEANS.
Or use the default 'mean values' of Detectron: ```'mean': [102.9801, 115.9465, 122.7717]```

```
curl -X PUT "http://localhost:8080/services/my_service" -d '{
  "description": "detectron",
  "type": "supervised",
  "mllib": "caffe2",
  "model": { "repository": "my_model" },
  "parameters": {
    "input": {
      "connector": "image",
      "scale_min":800,
      "scale_max":1333,
      "mean": [102.9801, 115.9465, 122.7717]
    },
    "mllib": { "gpu": true }
  }
}'
```

**WARNING: Using scaled inputs will force a batch size of 1**

- #### With masks as outputs

Because masks are generated using more files (see "[get a model](#get-a-model)" for more details), an additional path must be given to the API when registering the repository.

If your model repository looks like this:

* my_model
   * predict_net.pb
   * init_net.pb
   * mask
     * predict_net.ob
     * init_net.pb

Then the following flag must be set:
- ```'repository': 'my_model'```
- ```'extensions': [{'repository' : 'my_model/mask', 'type' : 'mask'}]```

Note that if the repository is not set, a subdirectory whose name is the type will be used. It means that in the current case, the flags can be simplified to:
- ```'repository': 'my_model'```
- ```'extensions': [{'type' : 'mask'}]```

```
curl -X PUT "http://localhost:8080/services/my_service" -d '{
  "description": "detectron",
  "type": "supervised",
  "mllib": "caffe2",
  "model": {
    "repository": "my_model",
    "extensions': [{"type" : "mask"}]
  },
  "parameters": {
    "input": { "connector": "image" },
    "mllib": { "gpu": true }
  }
}'
```

### Predict

- #### Bounding boxes

The only flag to set is ```'bbox': true```:

```
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8080/predict" -d '{
  "service": "my_service",
  "parameters": {
    "output": {
      "bbox": true,
      "best": 1,
      "confidence_threshold": 0.7
    }
  },
  "data": [ "my_image_01.jpg", "my_image_02.jpg", "my_image_03.jpg" ]
}'
```

- #### Masks

The only flag to set is ```'mask': true```:

```
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8080/predict" -d '{
  "service": "my_service",
  "parameters": {
    "output": {
      "mask": true,
      "best": 1,
      "confidence_threshold": 0.7
    }
  },
  "data": [ "my_image_01.jpg", "my_image_02.jpg", "my_image_03.jpg" ]
}'
```

The API will then return a new field in addition to the bounding box:
```
{
  "cat": "boat",
  "prob": 0.997,
  "bbox": {
    "xmin": 318.044,
    "ymin": 284.642,
    "xmax': 465.683,
    "ymax': 360.258
  },
  "mask": {
    "format": "HW",
    "width': 148,
    "height": 77,
    "data": [0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, ..., 0, 0]
  }
}
```

###### Example

You can use [this](plot_masks.py) script as an example on how to use the API results

Start DeepDetect, register your service, and run :
```
./plot_masks.py                                \
   --host=localhost --port=8080                \
   --service=service_name --threshold=0.8      \
   --pdf=/path/to/the/output/file.pdf          \
   /path/to/image1.jpg /path/to/image2.jpg ...
```

Commit message:

Added support for https://github.com/ronghanghu/seg_every_thing models

examples/caffe2/detectron/README.md, after:

# Detectron and DeepDetect


### Table of Contents

**[Requirements](#requirements)**

**[Get a model](#get-a-model)**

**[Create a service](#create-a-service)**

**[Predict](#predict)**

### Requirements

DeepDetect must be compiled with the ```-DUSE_CAFFE2=ON``` flag

### Get a model

- #### In caffe2 format

You can find some of them [here](https://github.com/caffe2/models/tree/master/detectron)

Both ```init_net.pb``` and ```predict_net.pb``` files must be present in your model repository (the other files aren't necessary)

- #### In Detectron format

Download the weights (model_final.pkl) from the [model zoo](https://github.com/facebookresearch/Detectron/blob/master/MODEL_ZOO.md)

And find the corresponding training [configuration file](https://github.com/facebookresearch/Detectron/tree/master/configs) (*.yaml)

(You can also get some models on the ["Learning to Segment Every Thing"](https://github.com/ronghanghu/seg_every_thing#inference) repository)

Then convert them using the [tool](https://github.com/facebookresearch/Detectron/blob/master/tools/convert_pkl_to_pb.py) provided in the Detectron repository

And finally, place the .pb files into the model repository:
- ```model_init.pb``` corresponds to ```init_net.pb```
- ```model.pb``` corresponds to ```predict_net.pb```

**WARNING: Those files cannot be used to infer masks, only bounding boxes**

###### Example

Here is a script to download and convert a **Fast R-CNN**:

```
#!/bin/sh

#Model R-50-C4 (with 2x the default learning-rate schedule)
WEIGHTS=https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/detectron/35857281/12_2017_baselines/e2e_faster_rcnn_R-50-C4_2x.yaml.01_34_56.ScPH0Z4r/output/train/coco_2014_train%3Acoco_2014_valminusminival/generalized_rcnn/model_final.pkl

#Config e2e_faster_rcnn_R-50-C4_2x.yaml
CONFIG=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/facebookresearch/Detectron/master/configs/12_2017_baselines/e2e_faster_rcnn_R-50-C4_2x.yaml

#Paths
DETECTRON=/home/foo/Detectron
WORKSPACE=/home/foo/tmp
REPOSITORY=/home/foo/rcnn_model

mkdir $WORKSPACE
cd $WORKSPACE
wget $WEIGHTS -O weights.pkl
wget $CONFIG -O config.yaml
python $DETECTRON/tools/convert_pkl_to_pb.py --out_dir . --cfg config.yaml DOWNLOAD_CACHE . TRAIN.WEIGHTS weights.pkl TEST.WEIGHTS weights.pkl

mkdir $REPOSITORY
cp model_init.pb $REPOSITORY/init_net.pb
cp model.pb $REPOSITORY/predict_net.pb
rm weights.pkl config.yaml model_def.png model.pbtxt model.pb model_init.pb
rmdir $WORKSPACE
```

- #### With mask support

To be able to generate masks, convert the model using [our](convert_pkl_to_pb.py) tool instead (using the same '.pkl' and '.yaml' as before).

This script uses the versions of Pytorch and Detectron embed within DeepDetect, so you need to add ```build/python_path/pytorch``` and ```build/python_path/detectron``` to your ```PYTHONPATH``` environment variable for it to work.

When executed, a subdirectory will be created inside your model repository to complete the missing part of the model.

(See the following example and "[create a service](#create-a-service)" for more details)

###### Example

```
#!/bin/sh

#Model R-50-C4 (with 2x the default learning-rate schedule)
WEIGHTS=https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/detectron/35859007/12_2017_baselines/e2e_mask_rcnn_R-50-FPN_2x.yaml.01_49_07.By8nQcCH/output/train/coco_2014_train%3Acoco_2014_valminusminival/generalized_rcnn/model_final.pkl

#Config e2e_faster_rcnn_R-50-C4_2x.yaml
CONFIG=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/facebookresearch/Detectron/master/configs/12_2017_baselines/e2e_mask_rcnn_R-50-FPN_2x.yaml

#Paths
DEEPDETECT=/home/foo/deepdetect # (We assume that there is a 'build' subdirectory)
WORKSPACE=/home/foo/tmp
REPOSITORY=/home/foo/rcnn_model

mkdir $WORKSPACE
cd $WORKSPACE
wget $WEIGHTS -O weights.pkl
wget $CONFIG -O config.yaml
PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$DEEPDETECT/build/python_path/pytorch:$DEEPDETECT/build/python_path/detectron \
	python $DEEPDETECT/examples/caffe2/detectron/convert_pkl_to_pb.py \
    --cfg config.yaml --wts weights.pkl \
    --out_dir $REPOSITORY --mask_dir $REPOSITORY/mask

rm weights.pkl config.yaml
rmdir $WORKSPACE
```

- #### With its class labels

If you do not have access to the training dataset or the classes that were used during the training, it may imply that one of the following was used:

- the 80-classes COCO dataset
- the 3000-classes Visual Genome dataset

Their classes are listed [here](https://github.com/ronghanghu/seg_every_thing/blob/master/lib/datasets/dummy_datasets.py).

You can also generate a 'corresp.txt' file when converting the model (using the ```--corresp=XXX``` flag of [this](convert_pkl_to_pb.py) script).

### Create a service

- #### With the default configuration

To use a detectron model, the following flags must be set:
- ```'mllib': 'caffe2'```
- ```'connector': 'image'```

```
curl -X PUT "http://localhost:8080/services/my_service" -d '{
  "description": "detectron",
  "type": "supervised",
  "mllib": "caffe2",
  "model": { "repository": "my_model" },
  "parameters": {
    "input": {
      "connector": "image",
      "height": 1000,
      "width": 1000,
      "mean": [128, 128, 128]
    },
    "mllib": { "gpu": true }
  }
}'
```

- #### With the same configuration as the python version

In this case, you want the images to be scaled but not stretched.
You can do that with the flags ```scale_min``` and ```scale_max```.
(Images are scaled until their width and height are at least 'scale_min' and and most 'scale_max'. If it's not possible, 'scale_min' is ignored).

You can find them in the .yaml file:
- Either TEST.SCALE or the first value of TRAIN.SCALES can be used as a 'scale_min'
- Either TEST.MAX_SIZE or TRAIN.MAX_SIZE can be used as a 'scale_max'

You can also use the default scales of Detectron (600 and 1000) by setting ```'scale': true```.

Finally, you can find the 'mean values' of the model inside the .yaml file, under the name PIXEL_MEANS.
Or use the default 'mean values' of Detectron: ```'mean': [102.9801, 115.9465, 122.7717]```

```
curl -X PUT "http://localhost:8080/services/my_service" -d '{
  "description": "detectron",
  "type": "supervised",
  "mllib": "caffe2",
  "model": { "repository": "my_model" },
  "parameters": {
    "input": {
      "connector": "image",
      "scale_min":800,
      "scale_max":1333,
      "mean": [102.9801, 115.9465, 122.7717]
    },
    "mllib": { "gpu": true }
  }
}'
```

**WARNING: Using scaled inputs will force a batch size of 1**

- #### With masks as outputs

Because masks are generated using more files (see "[get a model](#get-a-model)" for more details), an additional path must be given to the API when registering the repository.

If your model repository looks like this:

* my_model
   * predict_net.pb
   * init_net.pb
   * mask
     * predict_net.ob
     * init_net.pb

Then the following flag must be set:
- ```'repository': 'my_model'```
- ```'extensions': [{'repository' : 'my_model/mask', 'type' : 'mask'}]```

Note that if the repository is not set, a subdirectory whose name is the type will be used. It means that in the current case, the flags can be simplified to:
- ```'repository': 'my_model'```
- ```'extensions': [{'type' : 'mask'}]```

```
curl -X PUT "http://localhost:8080/services/my_service" -d '{
  "description": "detectron",
  "type": "supervised",
  "mllib": "caffe2",
  "model": {
    "repository": "my_model",
    "extensions': [{"type" : "mask"}]
  },
  "parameters": {
    "input": { "connector": "image" },
    "mllib": { "gpu": true }
  }
}'
```

### Predict

- #### Bounding boxes

The only flag to set is ```'bbox': true```:

```
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8080/predict" -d '{
  "service": "my_service",
  "parameters": {
    "output": {
      "bbox": true,
      "best": 1,
      "confidence_threshold": 0.7
    }
  },
  "data": [ "my_image_01.jpg", "my_image_02.jpg", "my_image_03.jpg" ]
}'
```

- #### Masks

The only flag to set is ```'mask': true```:

```
curl -X POST "http://localhost:8080/predict" -d '{
  "service": "my_service",
  "parameters": {
    "output": {
      "mask": true,
      "best": 1,
      "confidence_threshold": 0.7
    }
  },
  "data": [ "my_image_01.jpg", "my_image_02.jpg", "my_image_03.jpg" ]
}'
```

The API will then return a new field in addition to the bounding box:
```
{
  "cat": "boat",
  "prob": 0.997,
  "bbox": {
    "xmin": 318.044,
    "ymin": 284.642,
    "xmax': 465.683,
    "ymax': 360.258
  },
  "mask": {
    "format": "HW",
    "width': 148,
    "height": 77,
    "data": [0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, ..., 0, 0]
  }
}
```

###### Example

You can use [this](plot_masks.py) script as an example on how to use the API results

Start DeepDetect, register your service, and run :
```
./plot_masks.py                                \
   --host=localhost --port=8080                \
   --service=service_name --threshold=0.8      \
   --pdf=/path/to/the/output/file.pdf          \
   /path/to/image1.jpg /path/to/image2.jpg ...
```
